__1910: __ GEORGES Claude displays his neon lamps to the public at the Paris Expo. Electric advertising is about to take a colorful turn, not to mention quite a few twists.
Claude created his invention by combining an earlier one with a new discovery. German physicist Heinrich Geissler created the first geissler tube in 1855 by applying electricity to a tube filled with gas at low pressure. Subsequent researchers experimented with gases like carbon dioxide and nitrogen to make various types of vapor lamps, electric discharge lamps, Crookes tubes and Moore lamps.
Meanwhile, William Ramsay, a Scot, and his student Morris Travers, an Englishman, discovered three new elements, krypton ("hidden gas"), neon ("new gas") and xenon ("strange gas"), in a matter of weeks in 1898. All were noble or (relatively) nonreactive gases.

Claude, an engineer and chemist, started experimenting with neon as the filler gas for a tube around 1902. The red color of the light was distinctive. Claude was onto something.
After some more tinkering, Claude created two 38-foot-long neon-tube lamps to show to the public in 1910. They were pretty. But business turned out to be pretty slow ... at first.
Claude's associate, Jacques Fonseque, sold the first neon-advertising sign to a Paris barber in 1912. The next year saw a breakthrough, as boulevardiers gazed upon 3.5-foot neon letters spelling "CINZANO."

Claude had applied for a U.S. patent Nov. 9, 1911, and Patent 1,125,476 was awarded Jan. 9, 1915. Claude then sold licenses to the new invention in other countries.


By 1919, red-and-blue neon lighting graced the entrance of the Paris Opera House. The first city in the United States to get the neon treatment was Los Angeles. (Las Vegas was still a sleepy little desert town.) Earle C. Anthony imported two "Packard" signs for his L.A. auto dealership in 1923. They cost him $24,000 (about $318,000 in today's money).
(Anthony, by the way, is noted as well for creating the Chevron gasoline emblem, starting a bus company that eventually merged into Greyhound Bus Lines, and founding and operating early radio and TV stations. He also built a home and three auto dealerships designed by renowned California architect Bernard Maybeck.)
Franchises for Claude Neon Lights, Inc., sprang up in other U.S. cities. Tokyo got its first neon signs in 1926. Neon advertising signs proliferated around the globe.
The bright red light soon picked up the name "liquid fire," and people started to refer to Georges Claude himself as "Claude Neon." He was nearly 90 when he died in 1960, by which time Las Vegas had started its neon-aggrandized growth.
Neon tubes, strictly speaking, produce only red light. The other colors are produced by combinations of argon (discovered by Ramsay in 1895, before neon), helium, carbon dioxide, mercury, and specialized phosphor coatings on the insides of the tube.
That makes Dec. 11 the brightest red-letter day in the calendar.